>> Steve Kinney: So let's get into it.
You ready?
Very cool.
So we're gonna talk about, first,
JavaScript performance, as I promised.
So the Ruby On Rails philosophy,
was that developers are more
expensive than faster server.
So make a language that even
if it's a little slower.
And a framework that even it's a little
slower, increases developer productivity.
Because you can send the money you were
gonna spend on ten more engineers,
to get this thing out the door,
and buy a beefier server.
That's a philosophy.
It doesn't work for
client-side applications,
because we can't buy all of
our customers new computers.
Like here, everyone,
here's a fancy Mac Book Pro.
Here you go, I don't wanna solve
my own performance issues.
I mean you could do that, but
that's probably not a good idea,
that's probably not a way
to stay in business.
So we have to think about these things.
We can compress assets.
We can reduce latency.
But this application's eventually
going to need to be run and built, and
you don't get to control,
the computer that it's run on.
So we, as Front-End Engineers,
unfortunately, have to bear this
burden of thinking about performance,
because we can't buy faster servers and
beefier machines.
So before I showed you just
the size of a webpage, as a whole,
the size of the JavaScript that
we're sending, is also growing
at a very large rate,
right, 500% on mobile.
The problem is,
there's a philosophy, well,
if I chip in an extra meg of JavaScript,
if I include one less JPEG,
that should be the same, right?
You just want some of those.
The problem is, again,
JPEG, you show it onscreen.
JavaScript, you need to parse and
compile it, and
in a lot of applications,
that's actually the big culprit here.
This is the application I work on.
There's a few things to notice.
This is loading the editor, that I
showed you in that screenshot earlier.
Down in the lower left hand corner,
you can see where the browser
spent most of the time.
That thin little blue stripe is loading.
Now, I was in Denver.
The data center is in Chicago,
it's not that far to get.
This would be very different if I was
in Australia, or Bangalore, or London.
But I was not too far from the servers,
it would probably even be closer here.
I spent the majority of the time
scripting, which is parsing and
compiling the Java Script.
And a little bit of rendering,
painting stuff along those lines.
The other part at the top, is basically
what the CPU was doing at any given point.
So you can see that the yellow
is parsing JavaScript,
which if you look at the pie chart
down below it's not like, wow,
I can't believe that
these are very different.
They're relatively the same thing.
And this is a lot of the times
called the big yellow slug.
If you do it like a create react app,
and nothing in the application watch and
see this later.
Like you're still gonna get
a certain amount of this,
cuz we're sending
a JavaScript application.
There's nothing in the HTML, originally.
We send this JavaScript application
has to figure out what to do.
These little red bars at the top,
are when I literary pegged the CPU, right?
I was using it at 100%
capacity to build this.
You can also see there's this graph in the
middle, called a flame chart, which is,
you've got at the top,
these top level functions.
Then if that function calls a function,
it's one layer down in the flame chart,
and you can see that I could scroll
[LAUGH], and more would happen here.
Chrome is actually really nice,
where those little red triangles on
the upper right, of any given thing in
the flame chart, that is where Chrome has
figured out like you're doing a bad thing.
Let me tell you about the bad
thing that you're doing.
Sometimes, it can give you something
helpful, we'll see that later.
Sometimes it's like, no,
this is just taking too long, and
I think you should know about it.
So you can kinda get a lot of
really useful information.
But the point that I really
wanna make on this slide,
is that most of the time that my
application is running, it's parsing.
I can gzip some more assets, I can put
something on a faster, a better CDN, and
stuff along those lines.
But that's not gonna solve
the 2,800 milliseconds, the two,
almost three seconds that I'm spending,
just parsing and compiling my JavaScript.
So what is happening in that yellow part?
Right, we feel like, yeah, that yellow
part, it's too big, it should be smaller.
[LAUGH] Right, okay,
how does any of this stuff work?
So it turns out that JavaScript
is a compiled language,
just like C or Java, it is put
through a compiler, and out comes,
some byte coder, some machine code, right.
You have other languages that are
interpreted language where it runs through
it, but JavaScript is compiled.
You're like,
I've never compiled in JavaScript.
I mean, you might've run it through Babel
to make more different JavaScript, but
I have never produced
a binary of JavaScript.
That's because it uses a thing
called just-in-time compilation.
Which is, the JavaScript code is compiled,
like moments before it's executed,
on your user's machine.
And that's why we saw the big yellow slug,
if you will.
So we're not compiling it,
it is getting compiled, just not by us.
Cool.
So just in time compilation.
It means it is compiled, it means it's
compiled moments before execution.
It means it's happening
in our client's machine.
It means that they're paying the cost,
and doing the hard work for us.
All right, so
what is happening in the compilation part?
We've identified it as a problem.
Were gonna focus,
each browser has a different engine.
Chrome has an engine called V8.
I believe that's what Oprah uses as well,
these days,
that wasn't true a few years ago.
Safari has one called JavaScript core, or
when their talking about
marketing materials called Nitro.
Firefox has one called Spider Monkey, and
there's a few other engines in there,
Ion Monkey, and a few other ones.
Has one called Chakra.
So each one has a different engine,
they do work differently.
We're gonna just focus on V8,
because getting really in the weeds on
the differences between all of them,
is probably not the best use of our time.
We're trying to get this
high level understanding.
So I am going to do, not the best web
standards thing in the world, but
make believe that V8 and
Chrome is the only browser right now.
Don't do that, that's rude,
but, [LAUGH] I'm doing it.
So our JavaScript lives in
this thing called, the cloud.
I don't really understand what that is.
But I understand that's where when I do
a web pack build, I put it in the cloud,
and there it is, and
people get it from there.
Beyond that,
that's the back end team's problem.
I've heard it's an S3 bucket.
I don't know.
So we send the JavaScript to the browser,
and then we have to parse it.
Okay, you've sent me those long
string of text, what does that mean?
We turn that into what's called
an abstract syntax tree,
which is an actual data structure that
represents what this code actually means.
That then goes to a baseline compiler or
an interpreter.
In Chrome,
these days is a thing called Ignition.
Get it?
It's V8 Ignition.
Mm hm, they're doing a thing here.
Google's really good at making sure that
their technologies are un-Googleable.
Go, as a programming language,
good luck, trying to Google that.
Ignition and turbo fan, which we'll talk
talk about later, also impossible to
Google for when you're doing research for
a workshop, I'm not better.
That gets turned into byte code,
that gets executed by the browser.
But wait, there's more, we'll talk
about later, JavaScript is really hard,
it's this dynamic language, It'd be great,
if we could make some of it faster.
So there's a second compiler in there.
This one's called Turbofan.
Get it?
It's the same, yeah.
And it's an optimizing compiler,
that then looks at the code, and
tries to make it even faster.
That will spit out, well,
any code that can be optimized.
Any code that can't be optimized, same
thing we saw before with the interpreter.
Any code that can be optimized,
goes to the optimizing compiler to get
optimized, whatever it does in there.
And then, that's spits out highly
optimized machine code, unique to
that whether it's RM, or X86, like Intel,
whatever, that shoots at the other end.
Some cases though, you're super optimized
code, isn't gonna work out, right?
It's not actually valid for
reasons that we'll talk about.
At which point,
we go back to using the slow byte code.
So it stands to reason,
that red arrow's bad.
If you can get stuff on the green arrow,
that's good.
And like, that's the goal.
And any time we end with the red arrow,
that's not good, right?
And so, one way to make your application
faster, is more green arrows,
less red arrows.
You can all write that down.
[LAUGH] Doing less work,
more green arrows, less red arrows.
Shorter yellow slugs.
None of those notes will make any
sense to you, a week from now, but
I think it's really important that
you capture them at this point.